# PROXY_PATTERN

What is the Proxy Pattern?
The proxy pattern is a Gang of Four design pattern. 
This is a structural pattern as it defines a manner for creating relationships between classes or entities. 
The proxy design pattern is used to provide a surrogate or placeholder object, which references an underlying object. 
The proxy provides the same public interface as the underlying subject class. 
It adds a level of indirection by accepting requests from a client object and passing these to the real subject object as necessary. 
This can improve the efficiency of access to objects that you do not wish to access directly, perhaps because they are slow to execute or are resource-intensive, or because you wish to add extra functionality.

There are many uses for the proxy design pattern. Five of the more common types of proxy are:

## Protection Proxy 

A protection proxy adds a layer of security to the underlying subject object. For example, the real object may access a database and retrieve sensitive data. The protection proxy could add methods or properties that allow the client object to provide appropriate authentication before allowing the data to be returned. It could also filter the data according to the rights of the authenticated user.

## Remote Proxy 

A remote proxy provides a local object that references a subject object in another location, generally via a network connection. The proxy performs the required actions to encode the requests for network transfer and accept the results from the remote resource before returning them to the client. A common example of a remote proxy is the local class generated by Visual Studio to provide access to a web service.

## Smart Proxy

Smart proxies add extra functionality to the calls to the real object's members. This functionality is often invisible to the client object. For example, counting the existing references to a resource-intensive object so that when the counter reaches zero the object's data can be removed from memory. You could also use a smart proxy to log calls to the underlying object's members.

## Virtual Proxy

A virtual proxy provides a simplified version of a complex object. Only when the detail of the object is required is the main object actually populated, providing a form of lazy initialisation. For example, a file management utility such as Windows Explorer may use an object for each file that is visible on the screen. When obtaining the file list, the file name, size and other easy-to-retrieve information would be held in proxy objects. Only when the "document preview" command is requested would the real object be created and populated with the full contents of the file, as these are slower to access and require more memory.
